= SkyTools - tools for PostgreSQL =

This is a package of tools in use in Skype for replication and
failover.  Also it includes a generic queuing mechanism PgQ and
utility library for Python scripts.

== Dependencies ==

Skytools modules use some other code to run, you need to install the
following dependencies on the system where you want to build and run
skytool applications.

=== Build dependencies ===

  libevent-dev postgresql-8.2 postgresql-server-dev-8.2 autoconf
  devscripts yada

=== Runtime dependencies ===

  python
  python-psycopg or python2.4-psycopg
  skytools-modules-8.2 or the version matching your PostgreSQL installation
  postgresql-plpython-8.2 (or your version of PostgreSQL)

== Building a debian package ==

The main Makefile provides a target for building a +.deb+ package
suitable for installation. You need to install some packages to be
able to build the debian package, the list is given in previous
section.

Then the build:

  $ make deb82

You can build skytools for older PostgreSQL systems by choosing one of
+deb81+ or +deb80+ targets.

The build should give you two debian package files to install, such as
+skytools_2.1.5_i386.deb+ and
+skytools-modules-8.2_2.1.5_i386.deb+. See the Installation section
for notes about where to install those packages.

== Building for other systems ==

The build and install from sources step are the following:

  $ autoconf
  $ ./configure [--prefix] [--with-python] [--with-pgconfig]
  $ make
  $ sudo make install

The following configure options are available:

--prefix::
  path prefix where to install skytools files (default: UNKNOWN)
  
--with-python::
  name of the Python executable (default: python)
  
--with-pgconfig::
  path to pg_config (default: pg_config)


== Documentation ==

Skytools documentation consist of text files, some of them in the
asciidoc format, from which you can produce man and html outputs:

  $ cd doc
  $ make man
  $ make html

You need asciidoc and xmlto packages for this to work.

== Installation ==

=== Skytools ===

You have to install skytools on the machines where you want to run it,
obviously. The installation of the skytools provides PgQ, Londiste and
walmgr.

=== Londiste ===

In the londiste case, as the replication process will run on only one
machine (either provider, subscriber or a tier box), things are not
that straight anymore.

But simple nonetheless: install PgQ on the machine where you want to
run it, provider being the straightforward choice. Then install
londiste only on the box from where you want to launch the replication
process, a good default begin the subscriber box this time.

You can then install londiste on provider from the subscriber box with
the +londiste.py+ command line tool.

== Usage ==

Please refer to the documentation.




